# Minimal Solutions to Generalized Three-View Relative Pose Problem

## Introduction
This repository hosts the source code of the paper: <br />
"Minimal Solutions to Generalized Three-View Relative Pose Problem" published in ICCV 2023 (oral presentation). [[Paper](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/ICCV2023/papers/Ding_Minimal_Solutions_to_Generalized_Three-View_Relative_Pose_Problem_ICCV_2023_paper.pdf)][[Supp](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/ICCV2023/supplemental/Ding_Minimal_Solutions_to_ICCV_2023_supplemental.pdf)] <br />
Two minimal cases for the generalized three-view relative pose problem were proposed: *(i)* the 4-point case and *(ii)* the 6-line case, which are both solved by [GPU-HC](https://github.com/C-H-Chien/Homotopy-Continuation-Tracker-on-GPU). It has shown to be more robust than the generalized two-view relative pose (which requires 6 points for a minimal case), and are efficient, *e.g.*, ~5.11 (ms) for the 6-line case and 4.77 for the 4-point case running on NVIDIA Titan V GPU. <br />
(Note that the timings reported here are a bit faster than what was reported in the paper because the performance of our GPU-HC solver has greatly improved.)

## Dependencies
(1) CMake 3.14 or higher <br />
(2) MAGMA 2.6.1 or higher (used for easy complex number computation on both CPU and GPU sides) <br />
(3) CUDA 11.X or higher <br />
(4) openBlas <br />
(5) YAML-CPP from [here](https://github.com/jbeder/yaml-cpp) (used to parse data from the .yaml file)

## Code Usage Instructions
### Build and Compile
Navigate to `GPU-HC/` and simply follow the standard build and compile steps, namely,
```bash
$ mkdir build && cd build 
$ cmake -DCMAKE_CUDA_ARCHITECTURES=XX ..
$ make -j
```
Note that
- `XX` is the compute capability of the GPU, _e.g._, 70, 75, 80, _etc_. This flag is optional, but adding it _may_ lead to a slight speedup.
- Change the include directories and linked library paths in the `CMakeLists.txt` files under `GPU-HC/` and `GPU-HC/magmaHC/`.

### Execute
Once the compilation is successful, navigate to `build/bin` where the execution file resides. Run the code with specified problem by
```bash
./magmaHC-main -p <problem-name>
```
where `<problem-name>` can be either `generalized_3views_4pts` or `generalized_3views_6lines`. The input structure follows the original [GPU-HC](https://github.com/Brown-LEMS/Homotopy-Continuation-Tracker-on-GPU) pattern.

## Single Precision v.s. Double Precision
This code provides both single and double precision running on GPU. The switch between the two can be made by setting the macro definition `USE_SINGLE_PRECISION` in `GPU-HC/magmaHC/definitions.hpp`. However, double precision is much slower than single precision as the required memory is doubled. Also, some care is needed for GPU memory address alignment which additionally occupies more memory. The paper reveals that the success rate of finding the actual solution, _i.e._, the solution we need in a practical situation, is almost the same when using single or double precision. The release of double precision is for anyone interested in recreating the experiments or any application that weights more on solution numerical accuracy. 

## Synthetic Data
Synthetic data used to feed the solver is generated by the MATLAB code under respective problem folder, _e.g._, ``GPU-HC/problems/generalized_3views_4pts/generate_synthetic_data.m`` for the 4-point case. Basically it generates system target parameters, ground-truth relative rotations and translations, _etc_. You will find the order of the system target parameters so that it makes transmission from synthetic data to real-world data easy. <br />

## TODOs
- [ ] Document the rest of the files, code, _etc_.
- [ ] Add a RANSAC scheme based on the framework of the [improved GPU-HC](https://github.com/Brown-LEMS/Trifocal_Pose_Estimation_using_Improved_GPUHC).
- [ ] Remove the reliance on MAGMA conventions with an alternate thrust library which might be an easier access to the research community.
- [ ] Add a python binding and example code to faciliate an easy access by python users.

## Change Logs
All changes and update information reside in changelogs.md

## Reference
Please cite the paper if using the code: <br />
```
@InProceedings{Ding:etal:ICCV:2023,
    author    = {Ding, Yaqing and Chien, Chiang-Heng and Larsson, Viktor and \r{A}str\"om, Karl and Kimia, Benjamin},
    title     = {Minimal Solutions to Generalized Three-View Relative Pose Problem},
    booktitle = {Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV)},
    month     = {October},
    year      = {2023},
    pages     = {8156-8164}
}
```



